title
A ention Boosted Sequential Inference Model
abstract
A ention mechanism has been proven e ective on natural language processing .
is paper proposes an a ention boosted natural language inference model named a ESIM by adding word a ention and adaptive direction - oriented a ention mechanisms to the traditional Bi - LSTM layer of natural language inference models , e.g. ESIM . is makes the inference model a ESIM has the ability toe ectively learn the representation of words and model the local subsentential inference between pairs of premise and hypothesis .
e empirical studies on the SNLI , MultiNLI and ora benchmarks manifest that a ESIM is superior to the original ESIM model .
natural language processing , deep learning , natural language inference , Bi - LSTM
INTRODUCTION
Natural language inference ( NLI ) is an important and signicant task in natural language processing ( NLP ) .
It concerns whether a hypothesis can be inferred from a premise , requiring understanding of the semantic similarity between the hypothesis and the premise to discriminate their relation .
shows several samples of natural language inference from SNLI ( Stanford Natural Language Inference ) corpus .
In the literature , the task of NLI is usually viewed as a relation classi cation .
It learns the relation between a premise Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro tor commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the rst page .
Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author ( s ) must be honored .
Abstracting with credit is permi ed .
To copy otherwise , or republish , to post on servers or to redistribute to lists , requires prior speci c permission and / or a fee .
Request permissions from permissions@acm.org .
DAPA '19 , Melbourne , Australia 2019
Copyright held by the owner / author ( s ) .
Publication rights licensed to ACM .
. and a hypothesis in a large training set , then predicts the relation between a new pair of premise and hypothesis .
e existing methods of NLI can be roughly partitioned into two categories : feature - based models and neural network - based models .
Feature - based models represent a premise and a hypothesis by their unlexicalized and lexicalized features , such as n-gram length and the real - valued feature of length di erence , then train a classi er to perform relation classi cation .
Recently , end - to - end neural network - based models have drawn worldwide a ention since they have demonstrated excellent performance on quite a few NLP tasks including machine translation , natural language inference , etc .
On the basis of their model structures , we can divide neural network - based models for NLI into two classes , sentence encoding models and sentence interaction - aggregation models .
e architectures of the two types of models are shown in .
Sentence encoding models ( their main architecture is shown in . a ) independently encode a pair of sentences , a premise and a hypothesis using pre-trained word embedding vectors , then learn semantic relation between two sentences with a multi - layer perceptron ( MLP ) .
In these models , LSTM ( Long Short - Term Memory networks ) , its variants GRU ( Gated Recurrent Units ) and Bi - LSTM , are usually utilized to encode the sentences since they were capable of learning long - term dependencies inside sentences .
scheme and compared several sentence encoding architectures : LSTM or GRU , Bi - LSTM with mean / max pooling , selfa ention network and hierarchical convolutional networks .
e experimental results demonstrated that the Bi - LSTM with max pooling achieved the best performance .
Talman et al .
designed a hierarchical Bi - LSTM max pooling ( HBMP ) model to encode sentences .
is model applied parameters of one Bi - LSTM to initialize the next Bi - LSTM to convey information , which shown beer results than the model with a single Bi - LSTM .
Besides LSTM , a ention mechanisms could also be used to boost thee ectiveness of sentence encoding .
e model developed by Ghaeini et al .
added selfa ention to LSTM model , and achieved beer performance .
Sentence interaction - aggregation models ( their main architecture is shown in . b ) learn vector representations of pairs of sentences in the way similar to sentence encoding models and calculate pairwise word interaction matrix between two sentences using the newly updated word vectors , and then the matching results are aggregated into a vector to make the nal decision .
Compared with sentence encoding model , sentence interaction - aggregation models aggregate word similarities between a pair of sentences , are capable of capturing the relevant information between two sentences , a premise and a hypothesis .
Bahdanau et al. translated and aligned text simultaneously in machine translation task , innovatively introducing a ention mechanism to natural language process ( NLP ) .
He et al . designed a pairwise word interaction model ( PWIM ) , which made full use of word - level ne -grained information .
Wang et al . put forward a bilateral multi-perspective matching ( BiMPM ) model , focusing on various matching strategies that could be seen as di erent types of a ention .
e empirical studies of Lan et al .
and Chen et al .
concluded that sentence interation - aggregation models , especially ESIM ( Enhanced Sequential Inference Model ) , a carefully designed sequential inference model based on chain LSTMs , outperformed all previous sentence encoding models .
Although ESIM has achieved excellent achievements , this model does n't consider the a ention along the words in a sentence in its Bi - LSTM layer .
Word a ention can characterize the di erent contribution of each word .
erefore , it will be bene cial to put word a ention into the Bi - LTSM layer .
Moreover , the orientation of the words represents the direction of the information ow , either forward or backward , should not be ignored .
In traditional Bi - LSTM model , the forward and the backward vectors learnt by Bi - LSTM are simply jointed .
It 's necessary to consider whether each orientation ( forward or backward ) has di erent importance on word encoding , thus adaptively joint the two orientation vectors together with di erent weights .
erefore , in this study , using ESIM model as the baseline , we add an a ention layer behind each Bi - LSTM layer , then use an adaptive orientation embedding layer to jointly represent the forward and backward vectors .
We name this a ention boosted Bi - LSTM as Bi - a LSTM , and denote the modi ed ESIM as aESIM .
Experimental results on SNLI , MultiNLI and ora benchmarks have demonstrated beer performance of a ESIM model than that of the baseline ESIM and the other state - of the - art models .
We believe that the architecture of Bi - a LSTM has potentially to be used in other NLP tasks such as text classi cation , machine translation and soon .
is paper is organized as follows .
We introduce the general frameworks of ESIM and a ESIM in Section 2 .
We describe the datasets and the experiment se ings , and analyze our experimental results in Section 3 .
We then draw conclusions in Section 4 .
ATTENTION BOOSTED SEQUENTIAL INFERENCE MODEL
Supposed that we have two sentences p = ( p 1 , , pl p ) and q = ( q 1 , , q l q ) , where p represents premise and q represents hypothesis .
e goal is to predict the label meaning for their relation .
ESIM model
Enhanced Sequential Inference Model ( ESIM ) is composed of four main components : input encoding layer , local inference modeling layer , inference composition layer and classi cation layer .
In the input encoding layer , ESIM rst uses Bi - LSTM layer to encode input sentence pairs ( Equations 1 - 2 ) , which can be initialized using pre-trained word embeddings ( e.g. Glove 840B vectors ) , where ( p , i ) is the word embedding vector of the i - th word in p , ( q , i ) is that of word in q .
( 2 ) Secondly , ESIM implements the local inference layer for enhancing the sentence information .
First it calculates a similarity matrix M based on p and q.
It then gets the new expression for p and q with the equation below :
where p and q represent the weighted summation of p and q .
It further enhances the local inference information collected as below .
mp = [ p ; p ; p ? p ; p p]
m q = [ q ; q ; q ? q ; q q] ( 7 ) A er the enhancement of local inference , another Bi - LSTM layer is used to capture local inference information and their context for inference composition .
Instead of summation adopted by Parikh et al. , ESIM proposes to compute both max and average pooling and feeds the concatenate xed length vector to the nal classi er : a fully connected multi - layer perceptron .
shows a high - level view of the ESIM architecture , where the boom LSTM1 layer of is the input encoding layer , the middle part with LSTM2 layer is the local inference layer , the upper part is the inference composition layer .
aESIM model
e over all architecture of our newly proposed a ention boosted sequential inference model ( named aESIM ) based on ESIM is similar to ESIM .
In detail , a ESIM also consists of four main parts : encoding layer , local inference modeling layer , decoding layer and classi cation layer .
e only difference between ESIM and a ESIM is that we substitute the two Bi - LSTM layers ( LSTM1 and LSTM2 ) in ESIM with two Bi - a LSTM layers in a ESIM .
erefore , as illustrated in , the layers with red - do ed circles in ESIM will be replaced by the Bi - a LSTM layers shown in the right upper corner of the and the details of Bi - aLSTM can be found in .
Given the word vector x il , l ?
[ 1 , T ] of the l - th word in sentence i , which can be obtained by pre-trained word embeddings such as Glove 840B vectors in the rst Bi - a LSTM layer or obtained from the local inference modeling layer in the second Bi - aLSTM layer .
We utilize a forward LSTM layer and a backward LSTM layer to collect both direction information
As described in introduction section , in the following newly proposed Bi - a LSTM , we add word a ention and additive operation on both orientations of traditional Bi - LSTM layer .
Word attention layer
It 's obvious that not all words contribute equally to the representation of a sentence .
A ention mechanism , which is introduced in [ 3 ] , is extremely e ective to extract vital words from the whole sentence , and is particularly bene cial to generate the sentence vector .
erefore , we use the following a ention mechanism a er we get
where u il is obtained a er one - layer MLP for the input f il , ?
il is the importance of word l , is calculated by the So Max unit on the context vector u w of the sentence i which is randomly initialized and modi ed during the training , s il is the a ention enhanced vector through multiplying the weight ?
il and original vector f il , where
Adaptive word direction layer
In traditional Bi - LSTM model , the forward and the backward vectors of a word are considered to have equal importance on the word representation .
e model simply connects the forward and backward vectors head and tail without weighing their importance .
For a word in di erent direction or orientation , the former and the la er words are reversed .
us , di erent direction vectors of a word make di erent contribution to the representation , especially the words in along sentence .
erefore , we propose a new adaptive direction layer to learn the contribution of di erent directions for a single word .
Formally , given two direction word vectors ? ?
s il and ? ?
s il , the whole word vector can be expressed as :
where , W * and b * denote weight matrix and the bias , denotes the nonlinear function , [ ] denotes the concentration .
All the parameters can be learned during training .
en we can get the whole sentence vector as below :
q j = Bi-aLST
M (s jl ) , ?j ? [ 1 , , l q ]
is word and orientation enhanced Bi - LSTM is called Bi - aLSTM .
It s whole architecture is shown in the , is applied in ESIM model to replace the two Bi - LSTM layers for the task of natural language inference .
Besides , this Bi - a LSTM can be used to other natural language processing tasks and our preliminary experiments have demonstrated that Bi - a LSTM is capable of improving the performance of Bi - LSTM models on sentimental classi cation task ( for space limitation , this results will not be shown in the paper ) .
EXPERIMENT SETUP 3.1 Datasets
We evaluated our model on three datasets : the Stanford Natural Language Inference ( SNLI ) corpus , the Multi - Genre Natural Language Inference ( MultiNLI ) corpus , and ora duplicate question dataset .
We selected these three relatively large corpora out of eight corpora in since deep learning models usually show beer generalization ability on large training sets and produce more convincing results than on small training sets .
SNLI e Stanford Natural Language Inference ( SNLI ) corpus contains 570,152 sentence pairs , including 549K training pairs , 10 K validation pairs and 10K testing pairs .
Each pair has one of relation classes ( entailment , neutral , contradiction and '- ' ) .
e '-' class indicates there is no conclusion between the two sentences .
Consequently , we remove all pairs with relation '- ' during training , validating and testing processes .
MultiNLI is corpus is a crowd - sourced collection of 433K sentence pairs annotated with textual entailment information .
e corpus is modeled on the SNLI corpus , but di ers in that covers a range of genres of spoken and written text , and supports a distinctive cross - genre generation evaluation .
ora e ora dataset contains 400,000 question pairs .
e task of this corpus is to judge whether the two sentences means the same a air .
Setting
We use the validation set to select models for testing .
e hyper-parameters of aESIM model are listed as follows .
We use the Adam method for optimization .
erst momentum is set to be 0.9 and the second 0.999 .
e initial learning rate is set to 0.0005 , and the batch size is 128 .
e dimensions of all hidden states of Bi - aLSTM and word embedding are 300 .
We employ non-linearity function f = selu replacing recti ed linear unit ReLU on account of its faster convergence rate .
Dropout rate is set to 0.2 during training .
We use pre-trained 300 - D Glove 840B vectors to initialize word embeddings .
Out - of - vocabulary ( OOV ) words are initialized randomly with Gaussian samples .
All vectors are updated during training .
Experiment results
Except for comparing our method a ESIM with ESIM , we listed the experimental results of methods with their references in on SNIL .
In , the method in the rst block is a traditional feature engineering method , those in the second are the sentence vector - based models , those in the third are a ention - based models , and ESIM and our aESIM are shown in the fourth block .
Where the results of ESIM and aESIM are implemented by ourselves on Keras , the results of the others are taken from their original publications .
We then compare the baseline models , CBOW , Bi - LSTM with ESIM and our a ESIM on MultiNLI corpus shown
In , where the results of the baselines are taken from .
Finally , we compare several types of CNN and RNN models on roa corpus shown in , the results of theses CNN and RNN models are taken from .
e accuracy ( ACC ) of each method is measured by the commonly used precision score 1 , and the methods with the best accuracy are marked in bold .
According to the results in , a ESIM model achieved 88.1 % on SNLI corpus , elevating 0.8 percent higher than ESIM model .
It promoted almost 0.5 percent accuracy and outperformed the baselines on MultiNLI .
It also achieved 88.01 % on ora. erefore , we concluded that a ESIM with further word a ention and word orientation operation was superior to ESIM model .
Attention visualization
We selected three types of sentence pairs from a premise and it s three hypothesis sentences in the test set of SNLI corpus as shown in , where the premise sentence is ' A woman with a green headscarf , blue shirt and a very big grin ' , and three hypothesis sentences are ' the woman has 1 h ps://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/snli/
Models
Acc Unlexicalized + Unigram and bigram features 78.2 300D LSTM encoders 80.6 300D NTI - SLSTM - LSTM encoders 83.4 4096D
Bi-LSTM with max-pooling 84.5 300D
Gumbel TreeLSTM encoders 85.6 512D Dynamic Meta - Embeddings 86.7 100D DF - LSTM17 84.6 300D LSTMN with deep a ention fusion 85.7 BiMPM 87.5 ESIM 87.3 aESIM 88.1 : e accuracy ( % ) of the methods on MultiNLI been shot ' , ' the woman is very happy ' and ' the woman is young ' with relation labels ' contradiction ' , ' entailment ' , and ' neutral ' , respectively .
Each pair of sentences has their keyword pairs : grin - shot , grin - happy and grin - young , which determines whether the premise can entail the hypothesis. : e accuracy ( % ) of the methods on ora
In each the brighter the color , the higher the weight is .
We could conclude that our a ESIM model had the higher weight than ESIM model on each keyword pair , especially in.b , where the similarity of ' happy ' and ' grin ' in aESIM model is much higher than that in ESIM model .
erefore , our a ESIM model was able to capture the most important word pair in each pair of sentences .
CONCLUSION
In this study , we propose an improved version of ESIM named a ESIM for NLI .
It modi es the Bi - LSTM layer to collect more information .
We evaluate our a ESIM model on three NLI corpora .
Experimental results show that a ESIM model achieves beer performance than ESIM model .
In the future , we will evaluate how a ention mechanisms can be applied on other tasks and explore away to useless time and space with guaranteed accuracy .
