title
A large annotated corpus for learning natural language inference
abstract
Understanding entailment and contradiction is fundamental to understanding natural language , and inference about entailment and contradiction is a valuable testing ground for the development of semantic representations .
However , machine learning research in this are a has been dramatically limited by the lack of large - scale resources .
To address this , we introduce the Stanford Natural Language Inference corpus , a new , freely available collection of labeled sentence pairs , written by humans doing a novel grounded task based on image captioning .
At 570 K pairs , it is two orders of magnitude larger than all other resources of its type .
This increase in scale allows lexicalized classifiers to outperform some sophisticated existing entailment models , and it allows a neural network - based model to perform competitively on natural language inference benchmarks for the first time .
Introduction
The semantic concepts of entailment and contradiction are central to all aspects of natural language meaning , from the lexicon to the content of entire texts .
Thus , natural language inference ( NLI ) - characterizing and using these relations in computational systems ) - is essential in tasks ranging from information retrieval to semantic parsing to commonsense reasoning .
NLI has been addressed using a variety of techniques , including those based on symbolic logic , knowledge bases , and neural networks .
In recent years , it has become an important testing ground for approaches employing distributed word and phrase representations .
Distributed representations excel at capturing relations based in similarity , and have proven effective at modeling simple dimensions of meaning like evaluative sentiment ( e.g. , ) , but it is less clear that they can be trained to support the full range of logical and commonsense inferences required for NLI .
In a SemEval 2014 task aimed at evaluating distributed representations for NLI , the best - performing systems relied heavily on additional features and reasoning capabilities .
Our ultimate objective is to provide an empirical evaluation of learning - centered approaches to NLI , advancing the case for NLI as a tool for the evaluation of domain - general approaches to semantic representation .
However , in our view , existing NLI corpora do not permit such an assessment .
They are generally too small for training modern data-intensive , wide - coverage models , many contain sentences that were algorithmically generated , and they are often beset with indeterminacies of event and entity coreference that significantly impact annotation quality .
To address this , this paper introduces the Stanford Natural Language Inference ( SNLI ) corpus , a collection of sentence pairs labeled for entailment , contradiction , and semantic independence .
At 570,152 sentence pairs , SNLI is two orders of magnitude larger than all other resources of its type .
And , in contrast to many such resources , all of its sentences and labels were written by humans in a grounded , naturalistic context .
In a separate validation phase , we collected four additional judgments for each label for 56,941 of the examples .
Of these , 98 % of cases emerge with a threeannotator consensus , and 58 % see a unanimous consensus from all five annotators .
In this paper , we use this corpus to evaluate A man inspects the uniform of a figure in some East Asian country .
contradiction
The man is sleeping
An older and younger man smiling .
neutral N NE N N Two men are smiling and laughing at the cats playing on the floor .
A black race car starts up in front of a crowd of people .
contradiction C C C C CA man is driving down a lonely road .
A soccer game with multiple males playing .
entailment E E E E E Some men are playing a sport .
A smiling costumed woman is holding an umbrella .
neutral N NE C N A happy woman in a fairy costume holds an umbrella ..
We further evaluate the LSTM model by taking advantage of its ready support for transfer learning , and show that it can be adapted to an existing NLI challenge task , yielding the best reported performance by a neural network model and approaching the over all state of the art .
A new corpus for NLI
To date , the primary sources of annotated NLI corpora have been the Recognizing Textual Entailment ( RTE ) challenge tasks .
1
These are generally high - quality , hand - labeled data sets , and they have stimulated innovative logical and statistical models of natural language reasoning , but their small size ( fewer than a thousand examples each ) limits their utility as a testbed for learned distributed representations .
The data for the SemEval 2014 task called Sentences Involving Compositional Knowledge ( SICK ) is a step up in terms of size , but only to 4,500 training examples , and its partly automatic construction introduced some spurious patterns into the data .
The Denotation Graph entailment set contains millions of examples of entailments between sentences and artificially constructed short phrases , but it was labeled using fully automatic methods , and is noisy enough that it is probably suitable only as a source of sup - 1 http://aclweb.org/aclwiki/index.php?
title=Textual_Entailment_Resource_ Pool plementary training data .
Outside the domain of sentence - level entailment , introduce a large corpus of semi-automatically annotated entailment examples between subject - verbobject relation triples , and the second release of the Paraphrase Data base includes automatically generated entailment annotations over a large corpus of pairs of words and short phrases .
Existing resources suffer from a subtler issue that impacts even projects using only humanprovided annotations : indeterminacies of event and entity coreference lead to insurmountable indeterminacy concerning the correct semantic label .
For an example of the pitfalls surrounding entity coreference , consider the sentence pair A boat sank in the Pacific Ocean and A boat sank in the Atlantic Ocean .
The pair could be labeled as a contradiction if one assumes that the two sentences refer to the same single event , but could also be reasonably labeled as neutral if that assumption is not made .
In order to ensure that our labeling scheme assigns a single correct label to every pair , we must select one of these approaches across the board , but both choices present problems .
If we opt not to assume that events are coreferent , then we will only ever find contradictions between sentences that make broad universal assertions , but if we opt to assume coreference , new counterintuitive predictions emerge .
For example , Ruth Bader Ginsburg was appointed to the US Supreme Court and I had a sandwich for lunch today would unintuitively be labeled as a contradiction , rather than neutral , under this assumption .
Entity coreference presents a similar kind of indeterminacy , as in the pair A tourist visited New York and A tourist visited the city .
Assuming coreference between New York and the city justifies labeling the pair as an entailment , but without that assumption the city could betaken to refer to a specific unknown city , leaving the pair neutral .
This kind of indeterminacy of label can be resolved only once the questions of coreference are resolved .
With SNLI , we sought to address the issues of size , quality , and indeterminacy .
To do this , we employed a crowdsourcing framework with the following crucial innovations .
First , the examples were grounded in specific scenarios , and the premise and hypothesis sentences in each example were constrained to describe that scenario from the same perspective , which helps greatly in controlling event and entity coreference .
2 Second , the prompt gave participants the freedom to produce entirely novel sentences within the task setting , which led to richer examples than we see with the more proscribed string - editing techniques of earlier approaches , without sacrificing consistency .
Third , a subset of the resulting sentences were sent to a validation task aimed at providing a highly reliable set of annotations over the same data , and at identifying are as of inferential uncertainty .
Data collection
We used Amazon Mechanical Turk for data collection .
In each individual task ( each HIT ) , a worker was presented with premise scene descriptions from a pre-existing corpus , and asked to supply hypotheses for each of our three labelsentailment , neutral , and contradiction - forcing the data to be balanced among these classes .
The instructions that we provided to the workers are shown in .
Below the instructions were three fields for each of three requested sentences , corresponding to our entailment , neutral , and contradiction labels , a fourth field ( marked optional ) for reporting problems , and a link to an FAQ page .
That FAQ grew over the course of data collection .
It warned about dis allowed techniques ( e.g. , reusing the same sentence for many different prompts , which we saw in a few cases ) , provided guidance concerning sentence length and
We will show you the caption for a photo .
We will not show you the photo .
Using only the caption and what you know about the world :
Write one alternate caption that is definitely a true description of the photo .
Example :
For the caption " Two dogs are running through a field . " you could write " There are animals outdoors . "
Write one alternate caption that might be a true description of the photo .
Example :
For the caption " Two dogs are running through a field . " you could write " Some puppies are running to catch a stick . "
Write one alternate caption that is definitely a false description of the photo .
Example :
For the caption " Two dogs are running through a field . " you could write " The pets are sitting on a couch . "
This is different from the maybe correct category because it 's impossible for the dogs to be both running and sitting .
complexity ( we did not enforce a minimum length , and we allowed bare NPs as well as full sentences ) , and reviewed logistical issues around payment timing .
About 2,500 workers contributed .
For the premises , we used captions from the Flickr30 k corpus , a collection of approximately 160 k captions ( corresponding to about 30 k images ) collected in an earlier crowdsourced effort .
The captions were not authored by the photographers who took the source images , and they tend to contain relatively literal scene descriptions thatare suited to our approach , rather than those typically associated with personal photographs ( as in their example : Our trip to the Olympic Peninsula ) .
In order to ensure that the label for each sentence pair can be recovered solely based on the available text , we did not use the images at all during corpus collection .
reports some key statistics about the collected corpus , and shows the distributions of sentence lengths for both our source hypotheses and our newly collected premises .
We observed that while premise sentences varied considerably in length , hypothesis sentences tended to be as : Key statistics for the raw sentence pairs in SNLI .
Since the two halves of each pair were collected separately , we report some statistics for both .
short as possible while still providing enough information to yield a clear judgment , clustering at around seven words .
We also observed that the bulk of the sentences from both sources were syntactically complete rather than fragments , and the frequency with which the parser produces a parse rooted with an ' S' ( sentence ) node at tests to this .
Data validation
In order to measure the quality of our corpus , and in order to construct maximally useful testing and development sets , we performed an additional round of validation for about 10 % of our data .
This validation phase followed the same basic form as the Mechanical Turk labeling task used to label the SICK entailment data : we presented workers with pairs of sentences in batches of five , and asked them to choose a single label for each pair .
We supplied each pair to four annotators , yielding five labels per pair including the label used by the original author .
The instructions were similar to the instructions for initial data collection shown in , and linked to a similar FAQ .
Though we initially used a very restrictive qualification ( based on past approval rate ) to select workers for the validation task , we nonetheless discovered ( and deleted ) some instances of random guessing in an early batch of work , and subsequently instituted a fully closed qualification restricted to about 30 trusted workers .
For each pair that we validated , we assigned a gold label .
If anyone of the three labels was chosen by at least three of the five annotators , it was 15 chosen as the gold label .
If there was no such consensus , which occurred in about 2 % of cases , we assigned the placeholder label '- '.
While these unlabeled examples are included in the corpus distribution , they are unlikely to be helpful for the standard NLI classification task , and we do not include them in either training or evaluation in the experiments that we discuss in this paper .
The results of this validation process are summarized in .
Nearly all of the examples received a majority label , indicating broad consensus about the nature of the data and categories .
The gold - labeled examples are very nearly evenly distributed across the three labels .
The Fleiss ?
scores ( computed over every example with a full five annotations ) are likely to be conservative given our large and unevenly distributed pool of annotators , but they still provide insights about the levels of dis agreement across the three semantic classes .
This dis agreement likely reflects not just the limitations of large crowdsourcing efforts but also the uncertainty inherent in naturalistic NLI .
Regardless , the over all rate of agreement is extremely high , suggesting that the corpus is sufficiently high quality to pose a challenging but realistic machine learning task .
shows a set of randomly chosen validated examples from the development set with their labels .
Qualitatively , we find the data that we collected draws fairly extensively on commonsense knowledge , and that hypothesis and premise sentences often differ structurally in significant ways , suggesting that there is room for improvement beyond superficial word alignment models .
We also find the sentences that we collected to be largely Parses
The distributed corpus includes parses produced by the Stanford PCFG Parser 3.5.2 , trained on the standard training set as well as on the Brown Corpus ( Francis and , which we found to improve the parse quality of the descriptive sentences and noun phrases found in the descriptions .
The distributed corpus
Our data as a platform for evaluation
The most immediate application for our corpus is in developing models for the task of NLI .
In par - ticular , since it is dramatically larger than any existing corpus of comparable quality , we expect it to be suitable for training parameter - rich models like neural networks , which have not previously been competitive at this task .
Our ability to evaluate standard classifier - base NLI models , however , was limited to those which were designed to scale to SNLI 's size without modification , so a more complete comparison of approaches will have to wait for future work .
In this section , we explore the performance of three classes of models which could scale readily : ( i ) models from a well - known NLI system , the Excitement Open Platform ; ( ii ) variants of a strong but simple feature - based classifier model , which makes use of both unlexicalized and lexicalized features , and ( iii ) distributed representation models , including a baseline model and neural network sequence models .
Excitement Open Platform models
The first class of models is from the Excitement Open Platform ( EOP , ) - an open source platform for RTE research .
EOP is a tool for quickly developing NLI systems while sharing components such as common lexical resources and evaluation sets .
We evaluate on two algorithms included in the distribution : a simple edit - distance based algorithm and a classifier - based algorithm , the latter both in a bare form and augmented with EOP 's full suite of lexical resources .
Our initial goal was to better understand the difficulty of the task of classifying SNLI corpus inferences , rather than necessarily the performance of a state - of - the - art RTE system .
We approached this by running the same system on several data sets : our own test set , the SICK test data , and the standard RTE - 3 test set .
We report results in .
Each of the models was separately trained on the training set of each corpus .
All models are evaluated only on 2 - class entailment .
To convert 3 - class problems like SICK and SNLI to this setting , all instances of contradiction and unknown are converted to nonentailment .
This yields a most -frequent - class baseline accuracy of 66 % on SNLI , and 71 % on SICK .
This is intended primarily to demonstrate the difficulty of the task , rather than necessarily the performance of a state - of - the - art RTE system .
The edit distance algorithm tunes the weight of the three caseinsensitive edit distance operations on the training set , after removing stop words .
In addition to the base classifier - based system distributed with the platform , we train a variant which includes information from WordNet and Verb - Ocean , and makes use of features based on tree patterns and dependency tree skeletons .
Lexicalized Classifier
Unlike the RTE datasets , SNLI 's size supports approaches which make use of rich lexicalized features .
We evaluate a simple lexicalized classifier to explore the ability of non-specialized models to exploit these features in lieu of more involved language understanding .
Our classifier implements 6 feature types ; 3 unlexicalized and 3 lexicalized :
1 .
The BLEU score of the hypothesis with respect to the premise , using an n -gram length between 1 and 4 .
2 . The length difference between the hypothesis and the premise , as a real - valued feature .
3 . The overlap between words in the premise and hypothesis , both as an absolute count and a percentage of possible overlap , and both over all words and over just nouns , verbs , adjectives , and adverbs .
4 . An indicator for every unigram and bigram in the hypothesis .
5 . Cross - unigrams : for every pair of words across the premise and hypothesis which share a POS tag , an indicator feature over the two words .
6 . Cross - bigrams : for every pair of bigrams across the premise and hypothesis which share a POS tag on the second word , an indicator feature over the two bigrams .
We report results in , along with ablation studies for removing the cross - bigram features ( leaving only the cross -unigram feature ) and for removing all lexicalized features .
On our large corpus in particular , there is a substantial jump in accuracy from using lexicalized features , and another from using the very sparse cross - bigram features .
The latter result suggests that there is value in letting the classifier automatically learn to recognize structures like explicit negations and adjective modification .
A similar result was shown in for bigram features in sentiment analysis .
It is surprising that the classifier performs as well as it does without any notion of alignment or tree transformations .
Although we expect that richer models would perform better , the results suggest that given enough data , cross bigrams with the noisy part - of - speech overlap constraint can produce an effective model .
Sentence embeddings and NLI
SNLI is suitably large and diverse to make it possible to train neural network models that produce distributed representations of sentence meaning .
In this section , we compare the performance of three such models on the corpus .
To focus specifically on the strengths of these models at producing informative sentence representations , we use sentence embedding as an intermediate step in the NLI classification task : each model must produce a vector representation of each of the two sentences without using any context from the other sentence , and the two resulting vectors are then passed to a neural network classifier which predicts the label for the pair .
This choice allows us to focus on existing models for sentence embedding , and it allows us to evaluate the ability of those models to learn useful representations of meaning ( which maybe independently useful for subsequent tasks ) , at the cost of excluding from con - , two identical copies of the model are run with the two sentences as input , and their outputs are used as the two 100d inputs shown here .
sideration possible strong neural models for NLI that directly compare the two inputs at the word or phrase level .
Our neural network classifier , depicted in ( and based on a one - layer model in , is simply a stack of three 200d tanh layers , with the bottom layer taking the concatenated sentence representations as input and the top layer feeding a softmax classifier , all trained jointly with the sentence embedding model itself .
We test three sentence embedding models , each set to use 100d phrase and sentence embeddings .
Our baseline sentence embedding model simply sums the embeddings of the words in each sentence .
In addition , we experiment with two simple sequence embedding models : a plain RNN and an LSTM RNN .
The word embeddings for all of the models are initialized with the 300d reference GloVe vectors ( 840B token version , ) and fine - tuned as part of training .
In addition , all of the models use an additional tanh neural network layer to map these 300d embeddings into the lower - dimensional phrase and sentence embedding space .
All of the models are randomly initialized using standard techniques and trained using AdaDelta ( Zeiler , 2012 ) minibatch SGD until performance on the development set stops improving .
We applied L2 regularization to all models , manually tuning the strength coefficient ?
for each , and additionally applied dropout to the inputs and outputs of the sen - tence embedding models ( though not to its internal connections ) with a fixed dropout rate .
All models were implemented in a common framework for this paper , and the implementations will be made available at publication time .
The results are shown in .
The sum of words model performed slightly worse than the fundamentally similar lexicalized classifier while the sum of words model can use pretrained word embeddings to better handle rare words , it lacks even the rudimentary sensitivity to word order that the lexicalized model 's bigram features provide .
Of the two RNN models , the LSTM 's more robust ability to learn long - term dependencies serves it well , giving it a substantial advantage over the plain RNN , and resulting in performance that is essentially equivalent to the lexicalized classifier on the test set ( LSTM performance near the stopping iteration varies by up to 0.5 % between evaluation steps ) .
While the lexicalized model fits the training set almost perfectly , the gap between train and test set accuracy is relatively small for all three neural network models , suggesting that research into significantly higher capacity versions of these models would be productive .
shows a learning curve for the LSTM and the lexicalized and unlexicalized feature - based models .
It shows that the large size of the corpus is crucial to both the LSTM and the lexicalized model , and suggests that additional data would yield still better performance for both .
In addition , though the LSTM and the lexicalized model show similar performance when trained on the current full corpus , the somewhat steeper slope for the LSTM hints that its ability to learn arbitrarily structured representations of sentence meaning may give it an advantage over the more constrained lexicalized model on still larger datasets .
Analysis and discussion
We were struck by the speed with which the lexicalized classifier outperforms its unlexicalized :
A learning curve showing how the baseline classifiers and the LSTM perform when trained to convergence on varied amounts of training data .
The y-axis starts near a random - chance accuracy of 33 % .
The minibatch size of 64 that we used to tune the LSTM sets a lower bound on data for that model .
counterpart .
With only 100 training examples , the cross-bigram classifier is already performing better .
Empirically , we find that the top weighted features for the classifier trained on 100 examples tend to be high precision entailments ; e.g. , playing ?
outside ( most scenes are outdoors ) , a banana ?
person eating .
If relatively few spurious entailments get high weight - as it appears is the casethen it makes sense that , when these do fire , they boost accuracy in identifying entailments .
There are revealing patterns in the errors common to all the models considered here .
Despite the large size of the training corpus and the distributional information captured by GloVe initialization , many lexical relationships are still mis analyzed , leading to incorrect predictions of independent , even for pairs thatare common in the training corpus like beach / surf and sprinter / runner .
Semantic mistakes at the phrasal level ( e.g. , predicting contradiction for A male is placing an order in a deli / A man buying a sandwich at a deli ) indicate that additional attention to compositional semantics would payoff .
However , many of the persistent problems run deeper , to inferences that depend on world knowledge and contextspecific inferences , as in the entailment pair A race car driver leaps from a burning car / A race car driver escaping danger , for which both the lexicalized classifier and the LSTM predict neutral .
In other cases , the models ' attempts to shortcut this kind of inference through lexical cues can lead them astray .
Some of these examples have qualities reminiscent of Winograd schemas .
For example , all the models wrongly predict entailment for A young girl throws sand toward the ocean / A girl ca n't stand the ocean , presumably because of distributional associations between throws and ca n't stand .
Analysis of the models ' predictions also yields insights into the extent to which they grapple with event and entity coreference .
For the most part , the original image prompts contained a focal element that the caption writer identified with a syntactic subject , following information structuring conventions associating subjects and topics in English .
Our annotators generally followed suit , writing sentences that , while structurally diverse , share topic / focus ( theme / rheme ) structure with their premises .
This promotes a coherent , situation - specific construal of each sentence pair .
This is information that our models can easily take advantage of , but it can lead them astray .
For instance , all of them stumble with the amusingly simple case A woman prepares ingredients for a bowl of soup / A soup bowl prepares a woman , in which prior expectations about parallelism are not met .
Another headline example of this type is A man wearing padded arm protection is being bitten by a German shepherd dog / A man bit a dog , which all the models wrongly diagnose as entailment , though the sentences report two very different stories .
A model with access to explicit information about syntactic or semantic structure should perform better on cases like these .
Transfer learning with SICK
To the extent that successfully training a neural network model like our LSTM on SNLI forces that model to encode broadly accurate representations of English scene descriptions and to build an entailment classifier over those relations , we should expect it to be readily possible to adapt the trained model for use on other NLI tasks .
In this section , we evaluate on the SICK entailment task using a simple transfer learning method and achieve competitive results .
To perform transfer , we take the parameters of the LSTM RNN model trained on SNLI and use them to initialize a new model , which is trained from that point only on the training portion of SICK .
The only newly initialized parameters are softmax layer parameters and the embeddings for words that appear in SICK , but not in SNLI ( which are populated with GloVe embeddings as above ) .
We use the same model hyperparameters that were used to train the original model , with the exception of the L2 regularization strength , which is re-tuned .
We additionally transfer the accumulators thatare used by AdaDelta to set the learning rates .
This lowers the starting learning rates , and is intended to ensure that the model does not learn too quickly in its first few epochs after transfer and destroy the knowledge accumulated in the pre-transfer phase of training .
The results are shown in .
Training on SICK alone yields poor performance , and the model trained on SNLI fails when tested on SICK data , labeling more neutral examples as contradictions than correctly , possibly as a result of subtle differences in how the labeling task was presented .
In contrast , transferring SNLI representations to SICK yields the best performance yet reported for an unaugmented neural network model , surpasses the available EOP models , and approaches both the over all state of the art at 84.6 % and the 84 % level of interannotator agreement , which likely represents an approximate performance ceiling .
This suggests that the introduction of a large high - quality corpus makes it possible to train representation - learning models for sentence meaning thatare competitive with the best hand - engineered models on inference tasks .
We attempted to apply this same transfer evaluation technique to the RTE - 3 challenge , but found that the small training set ( 800 examples ) did not allow the model to adapt to the unfamiliar genre of text used in that corpus , such that no training configuration yielded competitive performance .
Further research on effective transfer learning on small data sets with neural models might facilitate improvements here .
Conclusion
Natural languages are powerful vehicles for reasoning , and nearly all questions about meaningfulness in language can be reduced to questions of entailment and contradiction in context .
This suggests that NLI is an ideal testing ground for theories of semantic representation , and that training for NLI tasks can provide rich domain - general semantic representations .
To date , however , it has not been possible to fully realize this potential due to the limited nature of existing NLI resources .
This paper sought to remedy this with a new , largescale , naturalistic corpus of sentence pairs labeled for entailment , contradiction , and independence .
We used this corpus to evaluate a range of models , and found that both simple lexicalized models and neural network models perform well , and that the representations learned by a neural network model on our corpus can be used to dramatically improve performance on a standard challenge dataset .
We hope that SNLI presents valuable training data and a challenging testbed for the continued application of machine learning to semantic representation .
